THE PROLOGUES
by La'Tarsha Blackhorn

═══════════════════════════════════════════════════════

═══ CHAPTER 1 ═══

HOW TO FRY A BOILED EGG
Poem 1

You are a perfectly boiled egg when you first emerge. 
Complete and whole as you stand before two paths diverged. 
One path is littered with deadman's silver, the other with fool's gold. 
Cowardly you'll progress along one, while claiming you are bold. 
Both paths lead to death, for all paths do. 
No matter which path you choose, you'll never wonder about things 
on the path you never knew. 

One path will kill you sooner, with the other you'll suffer more. 
Every step you'll further, will leave your feet newly sor'd. 
Your feet hold no concern, so their pain is always a "never mind." 
Because you refuse to temple your soles, your eyes will remain forever blind. 
Both paths lead to end, and one you must take. 
There is no standing still, only forward with mischief'd breaks. 

You were a perfectly boiled egg when you first emerged. 
Now cracked and crumbling as you traipse the path you ignorantly diverged.


═══════════════════════════════════════════════════════

═══ CHAPTER 2 ═══

THE LAST WEDDING ON EARTH
Prologue

"In 2028, after the second world plague, two major events happened. Can anyone guess what those two things were?" Mr. Saldon, a Historian, begrudgingly scanned his second grade classroom looking for a student to reveal the answer. Every hand raised as he knew they would. Each with its own overly polite smile. "You." He pointed to the little girl with short fluffy plats. The girl rose from her seat with much poise. A scoff escaped before he could stop it and he busied himself with the chalk resting beneath the board to hide his disdain. He was a man whose opinions were once highly sought after, now sentenced to educate the young minds of a new growing nation.

Sometimes he fantasized about body-slamming the children in his class, but the thought never lingered long. He knew if he so much as grazed one, the rest would swarm him like killer wasps until nothing was left.

"After the second plague event, the global Isen population crashed from twenty percent of its original base to just four percent." The young girl met her teachers eyes with kindness and authority as she continued, "Then governments scrambled to preserve what was left — some even restricted out-marriage and launched population preservation acts."

The students around her clapped in unison at the delivery of her answer. Sucking her lips in, she stifled her smile and bowed her head in thanks to her classmates. Her voice carried with practiced poise, but her bow was clumsy, betraying the child beneath the performance.

"Correct Lilac," Mr. Saldon stopped himself from rolling his eyes and turned his attention back to the board quickly scribbling a few words as he summarized Lilac's answer. "Political power rapidly shifted to the Africas and the Asias of the old, while survivalist Isen groups retreated into enclaves—You may take your seat Lilac."

Mr. Saldon checked the clock above the classroom door.

11:45 am

There were only fifteen minutes left to the school day and Historians were only allowed to be on campus for a maximum of three hours though they were paid a full days salary.

"Who can tell me the social and cultural atmosphere that occurred following this." Mr. Saldon tossed the next question out to studying eyes and ears.

Every time Mr. Saldon turned his back to them, he felt their eyes grow and mouths widen as if at any moment, they would consume him — *studying, always studying*.

When he first arrived to work at the school his nights were plagued with terror. He was convinced the children in his class followed him home.

Again Mr. Saldon scanned the classroom. A hand the color of natural eggshell waved eagerly back and forth. A putrid taste filled his mouth. He wanted to ignore this particular student, but recent run-ins made him rethink his actions.

"Dahlia." He pointed.

A young girl, with many small twisted strands of hair stood. Gold rings hung at the ends of her clustered strands.

"Non-Isen populations framed the crisis as a historic reversal of colonialism. Museums, universities, and even global councils debated whether to preserve Isen culture the way endangered languages or species were preserved."

"Thank you Dahlia," said Mr. Saldon, "please take your seat."

"As Isen populations collapsed, chaos spread in throughout the old countries." Dahlia continued as if her teacher never spoke. "Historian-dominated governments responded with old patterns — militarization, border control, and denial — but these failed."

Dahlia defying Mr. Saldon's simple instructions made the rest of the students perk up and study further. Acts of defiance were seen as remarkable here — *Defiance is unsharpened leadership*, one of the many mottos the school drilled into its children.

Mr. Saldon's hand tensed with anger at Dahlia's refusal to sit. He was a Historian, once a pillar of authority in the old world. Now his kind were tolerated only as relics, sentenced to three-hour lessons and then sent home.

Dahlia turned her gaze to her classmates, "Women of the old countries, led by Ma'Risha Crowsworth, organized relief networks faster than the old states could act."

"Dahlia your seat." Mr. Saldon spoke firmer.

"Food distribution, healthcare, and education were stabilized not by governments, but by women-led coalitions."

"Dahlia!" Mr. Saldon yelled. It was an common occurrence whenever he dealt with Dahlia. "get in your goddamn seat!"

"I beg your pardon Mr. Saldon!" Headmistress Larkspur stood at the entrance of the class. A woman with a strong gaze whose hair stayed arranged in the most extravagant manner, bobbed slightly as she stifled her own temper.

"Ooh." A male student said.

"He's in so much trouble." Another one whispered.

"Again." A different student replied.

"Headmistress—" Mr. Saldon looked back at a teary eyed Dahlia. Her bottom lip quivered as she tried to hold back her tears.

*Shit*. Mr. Saldon thought as he failed to collect himself.

"Dahlia, your Lady governance is here to pick you up." Headmistress Larkspur stepped further into the class. "You have an important meeting with your future husband's family this weekend. You are to be transferred to the School of Oracles if all goes well." Headmistress Larkspur tilted her head and smiled at Dahlia.

"Yes Headmistress." Dahlia answered, her voice on the verge of breaking. "I've been studying non-stop."

"Oh I can tell," Headmistress Larkspur walked to Dahlia's desk and ushered the child to gather her belongings, "When the global Isen population dropped to four percent," Headmistress wiped a single tear that threatened to fall from under Dahlia's eye. Then, lifting her chin, she turned her attention to the students. "It became obvious: the systems built on centuries of Historian-centered dominance were brittle."

Headmistress Larkspur moved through the rows, each step softening the children's rigid posture as she spoke, "Historian leaders pushed toward war for resources, but women intervened stopping the wars before they began."

Mr. Saldon watched as the children slipped back into docile order. Even Dahlia settled.

*Practiced.*

"Women were tired of losing children to gruesome *illogical* violence." Headmistress Larkspur smiled politely and held out her hand to Mr. Saldon as she finished reciting the rest of Dahlia's answer.

Without hesitation Mr. Saldon shook it. Her handshake—a reminder to the children to temper their *hearts—and* a private reminder to Mr. Saldon of the power his kind had squandered and could never reclaim.

All eyes in the classroom fell onto Mr. Saldon except for Headmistress Larkspur's and Dahlia's. Their eyes stayed attentive to each other, as the Headmistress made her way back to Dahlia. Words unspoken passed between them. Headmistress Larkspur wasn't just in charge of *Emeri the School of Unity Forward Thinkers*. She was Dahlia's mother and this was their goodbye.

A silence so heavy took over the classroom and forced Mr. Saldon to retreat behind his desk.

Headmistress Larkspur raised her daughter's chin once more and with a gentle tap she reminded her daughter to keep it raised.

"If it's okay with you Mr. Saldon," Headmistress Larkspur gently palmed Dahlia's hair. The golden rings at the ends of her hair chimed, a delicate sound that filled the silence like a gentle verdict. "Can the kids wrap up class a little early and help see Dahlia off?" She cut her eyes toward the Historian — a warning as clear as the chime of her daughter's rings. "It's not everyday an Oracle is made."

"Of course Headmistress." Mr. Saldon clapped his hands, a brittle sound, and dismissed the class. The boys and girls gathered their books in a rush, their chatter bubbling with excitement as they hurried out to see off their *sister-in-mission*, Dahlia.

"Mr. Saldon, I expect a full report of the reasons for your outburst on my desk no later than end of day. I'll have to report this to the council."

"Yes, of course, Headmistress." Mr. Saldon lowered his head, the gesture more bow than acknowledgment.

The Headmistress leveled a gaze of pure disgust at Mr. Saldon before following the children.


═══════════════════════════════════════════════════════

═══ CHAPTER 3 ═══

Poem 2

You are a cracked and crumbling egg, but still you do not weep. 
Instead you curse the soles of your deteriorating feet. 
Picking at your flesh, the flies agree "unripened", they hum. 
And so they turn away, avoiding what won't succumb. 

"Hord!" Laughs the vultures, circling low and slow. 
Mocking the lies and invalidations you boldly claim to know. 
With contempt, you cloud your vision. With malice, you line your speech. 
With spite you reject the admirable. With greed, you sniff to leech. 

Oh how foul, how grotesque, the trail you leave behind. 
"Neglect!" Cry the vultures as your steps grow more confined. 
Madness, you are, while baring broken teeth. 
Though still you press forward barely covered by your weakened sheath. 

"Waste!" The vultures sing. Their wings beat closer now. 
"Defy!" You curse them back and they float swiftly down. 
Too prideful to admit your steps, you've misled. 
Too shameless to accept that vultures only eat of the recently dead. 

Too dull to fear, too hollow to run. 
Yet forward you still move as if time had not begun. 
You're more than cracked now. You're broken and exposed. 
And still you blame the sun for the path you ignorantly chose.


═══════════════════════════════════════════════════════

═══ CHAPTER 4 ═══

ALL HER PRETTY HORSES
Prologue

She slapped me across the face, but this time the familiar sting of her cold hand wouldn't crumble my resolve.

"A nigger, Aubre!" Mama screeched at the top of her tar filled lungs. Warm ashes from her cigarette hit my chin as my head whipped to the side, recoiling from the pain.

Tears formed in my eyes, but I quickly wiped them away. I refused to let her have them this time.

Mama—a woman of her own importance—raised her hand again for another strike. I didn't avoid it. I was too happy to be scared. At the sting of her touch, Jeremiah's hand holding mine swept into my mind. I felt the warmth from his touch even in this moment. His warmed where Mama's chilled. Butterflies flooded my stomach and my heart raced. Mama continued to yell while her rage poured into me. Her breath—sour with fresh smoke—pushed me back. The loud clack of her shoes froze my feet in place, then her hand met me again. I caught a glimpse of myself in Mama's wall mirror.

I didn't recognize the eyes staring back at me.

*Lost in confusion.*

Warm red liquid crept from my nose to my lips. It reminded me of the puddle outside. I licked at it instinctively—metallic and too wet. Its bitterness caused my body to jerk in eww. Mama took this as a sign she'd hit me enough. Her hand shook as she blinked. She rushed from the room, leaving me alone with my bruises. Huh. My eyebrows curved in some strange way. My eyes blurred, narrowing the image of the door Mama had just left through. I bit my lip backward into my mouth, and somehow, my lips pulled upward—into a lovesick smile.

Earlier today Jeremiah, the new kid in the neighborhood, asked if I would be his girlfriend while we walked home together, and I said yes. Jeremiah took my hand in his. My feet wanted to dance, but I was afraid I'd break our grip. It was late October and Fall was just setting in.

"We better hurry home, I can smell the rain coming." Jeremiah picked up the pace pulling me after him.

We were in the same grade, but Mrs. Wilterson, our first-grade teacher, never let the boys and girls sit at the same table. So I only got to talk to him during recess.

We were a few blocks from our neighborhood when, just like he said, it started raining. The air hadn't chilled yet, so the droplets were warm, just like in the summer. Our rushed panic turned into yips of laughter as we raced home, hand in hand. Only once we got to the front of Jeremiah's house did he let my hand go. Raindrops mixed with the shuffled dirt on the sidewalk in front of Jeremiah's house. A puddle glimmered with reddish browns, holding my attention for an odd moment.

"Get inside." Jeremiah released my hand and pointed to my house while shielding his face from the rain with his other hand.

I waved an excited bye, crossed the street, and stopped at the door to pull off my soggy socks and drenched shoes. I tossed the set on the porch, then hurried inside to share the good news with Mama.

Jeremiah and his family came to Austin from a place called Louisiana. They moved across the street from us this past summer, and we played together almost every day—him and his little sister, Petunia. He and his entire family had the funniest accents. I remember saying that to daddy one day.

"Hell, we all country!" Daddy leaned back in his chair and hollered at his own cleverness.

Daddy and Mr. Beaux worked at the same company and they took the same bus to work every morning. They often walked, talked, and laughed together along the way. It was the only time I'd ever heard daddy laugh such a big laugh. Daddy's laugh was like a lightining strike bringing forth the sound of thunder. And just like lightining, it only ever happened outside our house. It felt good.

Every day from sun-up to sun-down, me and Jeremiah played. Sometimes we searched for bugs, sometimes we'd play tag, sometimes we'd race. Jeremiah was faster than me, but he'd let me win every once in a while. Jeremiah was kind like that. He never wanted others to feel odd or unhappy. Everyone in class liked him because of his warmth. He was like the sun to me.

What I hated most was when our playtime would end—not because of Jeremiah. It was because, just as it was time to go home, I'd smell the most amazing scent coming from Mrs. Beaux's kitchen. Every time I would try to muster up the courage to ask for some, Mama with her sixth sense would pop her head out our kitchen window.

"Aubre-Lynn, come on nah it's time to eat. You've been bothering them good folks long enough." Then she'd give a warm wave to Mrs. Beaux, and I'd be gently shooed away.

One day, before me and Jeremiah played our usual game of tag, Mrs. Beaux came to the door. She had on the most beautiful yellow dress. It had two tiny horses embroidered on its collar on each side. Her hair was big and fluffy like those picture women and her dark mahogany skin shined like polished wood. She smiled at me and I couldn't help but smile back. Like I had caught something contagious.

"Aubre dear, go tell your maw I got some red beans and rice with smoked neck bones cooking on the stove. She and you oughta come over for dinner tonight. Specially since the old men have a double shift tonight. Tell her we can hang out." The last of her words faded into air as my heart skipped a beat.

"You mean you want us to come eat with y'all?" I held my breath in disbelief, afraid I'd heard her wrong. I never thought I'd get to see inside Jeremiah's home, let alone taste his mama's food.

"Yes ma'am," she playfully laughed as she went back inside.

I took off running to my house as fast as my feet could carry me. The tall grass in Mrs. Beaux's lawn grabbed at my legs, tickling and itching me at the same time. I busted through the front door of my house out of breath and sweaty.

"Mama, Mama!" I ran to the kitchen.

"What is it, Aubre? Why are you calling my name like that?" Mama pulled her cigarette from her mouth and tapped the ashes into the sink.

"Mrs. Beaux said that you and me should come over to eat tonight since Daddy and Mr. Beaux working a double. She got some beans and neck bones! Can we Mama? Please?"

Mama's body jerked as if she's been hit. The corners of her mouth drew back and downward while her lips curled upward in a snarl.

"Mama?" I moved titled my head to get a better look.

Mama put the cigarette back into her mouth and drew a long breath. The smell of smoke and dish suds mixed with each other, grossly—like two toys you didn't want to play with, at least not together. She reached into the sink and grabbed a cooking knife she'd used during breakfast. The handle was yellow—not like Mrs. Beaux's dress—yellow with more green in it. She placed the knife in the palm of her free hand, squeezed, and dragged it down, slicing her palm open.

Fright took ahold of me and I screamed—and so did Jeremiah, who neither Mama nor I had noticed standing just behind me. He'd followed me in my rush to deliver the good news. Seeing Jeremiah shocked Mama back to her senses.

"Oh, I'm so sorry!" Mama blinked what must've been a hundred times. Sharp, grated tings bounced off the knife as she tossed it into the sink.

Her lungs betrayed her, strangling on the new smoke lacing them. She hacked and coughed something nasty, but the cigarette never fell from her lips. Bewildered, she spotted a wet rag and pressed it into her new wound.


═══════════════════════════════════════════════════════

═══ CHAPTER 5 ═══

Poem 3

You are a leathered and rancid egg, your lips fused shut from the intense heat. 
No longer able to curse the sun's eternal seat. 
Your feet give out. you clumsily crawl. 
Your hands too wounded, fail to break your fall. 

With impatience, you grunt along this path that won't end. 
Further you'd have gone, if only your feet you'd attend. 
Expendable, false, self-made "great". 
Never would the world weep for such a spoiled gait. 

Claw then pull, you refuse to acknowledge the inevitable truth. 
If only you had valued your soles in your youth. 
Pity? What pity? For you, the insane? 
Look back at the trail. Lunacy. Bloodstain. 

Finally you get it, too late your last breath. 
Your funeral, unattended, unmourned is your death. 
The vultures, with glee, do they peck at your flesh. 
Cursed was the day you lay tot in a crèche. 

Fried is your skin, overdone, black as coal. 
Though your steps were for naught, being dinner is the toll. 
You were perfection when you emerged, a gift, you were light. 
Even in the end, pride refused your contrite. 

Had you considered for a second, are these paths worth my soles? 
The answer would be not, and you would've stayed whole.


═══════════════════════════════════════════════════════

THE END

—

First edition minted 2025 on the Base blockchain.
A Web3-native publication by La'Tarsha Blackhorn.


thank you dear reader,
you are to come across more
creatures than me on your path…
i hope you'll remember to temple
your feet.









—






A WORD FROM THE AUTHOR

In my mind, I see the future. Because you've read this book, it means fruition. A comforted hand I'd offer you, but then you'd know I, too, am real. And knowing that would uncap your pain to overflow onto my pages—which, my dear, I simply cannot allow. Instead, I'll leave you with this to ponder: in this moment, were you to look at your feet — truly see them and their struggles to carry you — would the vultures be circling?

Otherworldly Bemused,
La'Tarsha Blackhorn
